>> Kadi Kraman: Now, let's schedule a
notification, all right, so I've switched
this from my iOS simulator to the screen
mirroring of my android phone.
So we can see how we're testing
the push notifications, right.
So here instead of handle
request permission,
let's call this schedule notification.
And what we're doing is
we're checking if we can
schedule a notification,
so if results is granted.
>> Kadi Kraman: And I'll do an else,
so this is to do but
I'll do an else here as well.
So I'll just do a quick
alert that says unable to
schedule notification and
enable the notification permission for
Expo go in settings.
Actually, it might be worth I didn't
do just an example of that, but
it might be worth adding a if device,
how do we do this here?
Yeah, if device is device,
this is device from Expo device,
so I just don't wanna get
this alert on a simulator.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah, so if it is
a device then we'll give the alert,
otherwise we can just fail
silently because it will
be on a simulator, so
we'll be the ones doing it.
All right, so if it is granted,
we want to schedule a notification, so
this will be asynchronous, so
we'll await notifications.
>> Kadi Kraman: We should
import notifications, so
let's import star as notifications
from Expo notifications.
And we want to await notifications
schedule notification async,
so this will schedule a local
notification for ourselves on our device.
And for the content,
we can pass in a title so
this will be our I'm
a notification from your app,
let's add a little emoji here as well.
>> Kadi Kraman: And then the other
config option that we're gonna pass
in is the trigger, so
when do we want to trigger it?
You can look at the docs, actually one,
we can look at the docs now, [LAUGH].
So extra notifications there we go, so
the trigger, so you can do like two sec,
you can pass in the amount of
seconds you can pass in a day.
So we go to date time, so
this will be the input, there you go.
So you can do a date,
you can do a time interval,
you can do a daily push notification,
a weekly,
a yearly or a particular second or
a particular timestamp.
So look at the docs, this is actually
quite flexible when you can schedule it.
But in our case,
let's just trigger it after 5 seconds,
so we can see it immediately.
All right, so we should probably
rename our button as well,
so let's call this schedule notification.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely, so
now let's see, I don't have
any settings, can you get rid of this?
Okay, lovely, so notifications, so I'm
gonna schedule notifications, so one thing
to note is that foreground and background
notifications are treated differently.
So when your app is open,
your background notification isn't going
to end up in your notifications bar.
So I'm going to press the button and
immediately background the app.
So press the button, background the app
and then open the notifications bar, so
I'm hoping again, notification here.
[SOUND] There you go I'm a notification
from your app, so when I open this,
it will open the app.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
it'll work the same on iOS,
I promise [LAUGH], so yeah.
So the important thing,
I guess to note here is I said,
if you have your app open,
this will be a foreground notification.
And you can add handling for
foreground notifications, so
you can look at the documentation for
that but by default they won't show up.
So if I do schedule
a notification here and
then just look at my notification bar and
wait for five seconds, nothing happens.
So nothing happens because my
app is literally open here.
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go.
So this is what it looks like on Android,
and this is what it looks like on iOS.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: This is not
a question specific notifications,
but the Google services.json
file in general.
Alexander's asking,
do you have any tips for
passing GoogleServices.json to EAS
while keeping it in the gitignore?
>> Kadi Kraman: While
keeping it in the gitignore,
why would you keep it in the gitignore?
I think, okay, so
there's this tricky thing
about secrets from people
coming from the web.
Actually, we have an iOS
developer in the audience,
would you put the Google services P list,
is it a secure file in your opinion?
>> Speaker 2: Bundling it in the app?
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah,
would you add it to get ignore or not?
>> Speaker 2: Yes, you would not want
the secrets in your Git repository to
keep them out of Github, but if they're
required bundled in the app to run for
push notifications.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So yeah,
I guess that's probably what they're
asking is are you generating them?
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah, so basically to set
up your firebase is a service from Google
and you use it for analytics, so
Google analytics got merged with Firebase.
So if you want to do
analytics on a mobile app,
you need to install React Native Firebase.
And also it's in different
personifications on Android but
the way you set it up is
you go to a firebase and
then you sign up and
you get this Google services p list.
And then for Android, I think it's a json
file but you get the file for android.
And then this file has
some kind of Ids that
distinguish your app to
the firebase services.
So the only work in conjunction to your
app so it needs to be the same app ID.
So it's not like someone could
take this app bundle and
use it in a different app,
it needs to be your app.
And then these files get bundled
within your app bundle and
delivered to the user's phone.
So anything delivered to the user's phone
inherently can't be completely secret.
So on the web, you could just do this and
then you can look
at the network traffic and
you can look at the code, so
it's more difficult to do
the same thing for a mobile app.
But you could take it off the phone,
you could like extract it you could see
everything that's shipped in your
mobile bundle in plain text.
So that's why anything you ship with your
React Native app including the p list and
Google services stuff is
inherently not secret.
And therefore those spirals, unless
your repository is public to the world,
I genuinely wouldn't put
them in gitignore myself,
because it's almost
communicating misinformation.
Because when you put it in gitignore and
treat it as a secret,
then it makes you think.
Anything that I put in these [INAUDIBLE]
inject into my JavaScript bundle at build
time, they're gonna be secret,
like server-side, but that is not true.
So anything you put in your
React Native app that gets delivered to
the user is not secret.
>> Speaker 2: One note on that Tiff, they
might be asking because secret scanning
GitHub will mark those as secrets.
So we did have to go through
the hoops to get it out of there and
we basically just generated.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: And
pull it from a secret storage or
do dnv or something like that.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I agree,
you can lock down the key to only
work on your app bundles and stuff.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah, exactly,
I've had this [LAUGH]
conversation about secrets a lot.
Which is why I think I've gone for
a bit of a tangent to the original
question was actually, I think it
was how do you use EAS with your Google
services files and keep a secret?
So there is EAS secrets, which you can use
and I think we have handling for this.
We have documentation for
this, eas secrets.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yeah, there's actually an
example for the Google services_Info.plist
here, so if you haven't seen this doc,
this might actually be helpful.
And also saying what I said about
these things not being secrets,
I think this is just like
a good thing to know.
Because a lot of people
end up reusing the secrets
by putting actual secrets in there.
So if there's anything you get from
the API, just like an API secret,
then it shouldn't be
included in your app code.
So for example,
you're using OpenAPI on your
React Native app and
you have the OpenAPI key.
So this is tied to yourself and
how much it's used will be
how much you get charged.
So this is a proper secret you don't want
someone else to accidentally get it you
want to be able to revoke it and
change it.
But if you bundle it with your app bundle
then it will be technically available for
anyone to see.
And also you can't revoke it because
you'd have to submit another app in order
to do that.
So the way to get around it is
the same way that you would on,
if you were building a website.
So you build a server, so it can literally
be a cloud function or a Lambda or
something.
And that server will have the API key and
do the sensitive your operation and your
mobile app will call your API and that
way you can always rotate your secrets.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
that's my attention on secrets.
[LAUGH]